Introduce 'Idiomatic Rust' learning module (#2800)
google/comprehensive-rust: src/idiomatic/leveraging-the-type-system/newtype-pattern/semantic-confusion.md

---
minutes: 5
---

# Semantic Confusion

> There is room for confusion whenever a function takes multiple arguments of the
> same type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a function takes multiple arguments of the same type, call sites are unclear:
```

```rust
# struct LoginError;
pub fn login(username: &str, password: &str) -> Result<(), LoginError> {
    // [...]
    # Ok(())
}

# let password = "password";
# let username = "username";
// In another part of the codebase, we swap arguments by mistake.
// Bug (best case), security vulnerability (worst case)
login(password, username);
```

> The newtype pattern can be used to prevent this class of errors at compile time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The newtype pattern can prevent this class of errors at compile time:
```

```rust
pub struct Username(String);
pub struct Password(String);
# struct LoginError;

pub fn login(username: &Username, password: &Password) -> Result<(), LoginError> {
    // [...]
    # Ok(())
}

# let password = Password("password".into());
# let username = Username("username".into());
// Compiler error 🎉
login(password, username);
```

<details>

- Run both examples to show students the successful compilation for the original
  example, and the compiler error returned by the modified example.

- Stress the _semantic_ angle. The newtype pattern should be leveraged to use
  distinct types for distinct concepts, thus ruling out this class of errors
  entirely.

- Nonetheless, note that there are legitimate scenarios where a function may
  take multiple arguments of the same type. In those scenarios, if correctness

>   is of paramount important, consider using a struct with named fields as input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is of paramount importance, consider using a struct with named fields as input:
```

  ```rust
  pub struct LoginArguments {
      pub username: &str,
      pub password: &str,
  }
  # fn login(i: LoginArguments) {}
  # let password = "password";
  # let username = "username";

  // No need to check the definition of the `login` function to spot the issue.
  login(LoginArguments {
      username: password,

>       password: username,

Reviewer 2: nit: these do not need to be repeated (and in fact the shorthand syntax makes a stronger case for this approach!)

Author: They don't qualify for the short-hand syntax in this specific example, since we have intentionally swapped them to mirror the mistake made in the slide example.

  })
  ```
  Users are forced, at the callsite, to assign values to each field, thus

>   increasing the likelihood of spotting bugs.

Reviewer: This point is worthy of a slide. The fact that structs are so convenient to construct inline, and that they require field labels, makes structs like this a very effective substitute for the named arguments feature found in other languages.

Reviewer: Please add a TODO here then.
